.\" LICENSE
.\" Copyright (C) 2003 - 2009 NetXen, Inc.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"*
.\"* This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
.\"* modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\"* as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
.\"* of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"*
.\"* This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\"* WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"* MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"* GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"*
.\"* You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"* along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"* Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place - Suite 330, Boston,
.\"* MA  02111-1307, USA.
.\"*
.\"* The full GNU General Public License is included in this distribution
.\"* in the file called LICENSE.
.\"*
.\"* Contact Information:
.\"*    info@netxen.com
.\"* NetXen,
.\"* 18922 Forge Dr.
.\"* Cupertino, CA 95014
.\"*/

.TH NXUDIAG 4 "6 08 2007" "nxudiag" ""

.SH NAME
nxudiag \- NetXen's User Diagnostic Utility.

.SH SYNOPSIS
Usage: nxudiag [command-options-and-arguments]
  where command is:

-i, --interface <inf>              Set inf to work with [eth1, eth2, etc].
                                   MUST be first in a chain

-a, --all                          Perform all test, regardless of default

-D, --default                      Perform Default tests only.

-R, --CRegs                        Control Registers test (default)

-F, --FLASH                        FLASH Test (default)

-I, --IRQS                         Interrupt Test (default)

-L, --IntLB                        Internal loop-back Test (default)

-H, --Hw                           Hardware test (default)

-S, --LinkSt                       Link Status Test (default)

-l, --LED                          LED Test (default)

-nR, --noCRegs                     No Control Registers Test(Combine -D or -a) 

-nF, --noFLASH                     No FLASH Test(Combine -D or -a)

-nI, --noIRQS                      No Interrupt Test(Combine -D or -a)

-nL, --noIntLB                     No Loop-back Test(Combine -D or -a)

-nH, --noHw                        No Hardware test(Combine -D or -a)

-nS, --noLinkSt                    No Link Status Test(Combine -D or -a)

-nl, --noLED                       No LED Test(Combine -D or -a)

-E, --ExtLB                        External Full Duplex loop-back Test

-h, --help                         Prints this help message

Note: While running diagnostics tests, your network traffic will be interrupted.

.SH DESCRIPTION
This is a tool to for performing the user diagnostics over the NetXen's NIC.
.br
The user diagnostics utility performs the following tests.
.br
1 Control registers test
.br
2 Flash memory test
.br
3 Interrupt test
.br
4 Internal loop-back test
.br
5 External full duplex loop-back test
.br
6 Link Test
.br
7 LED Test
.br
8 Hardware Test
.br
9 All tests
.br
10 Board Info
.br

.SH OPERATIONAL DETAILS

.SH Control registers test
In this test the user diagnostic utility reads the values stored in the control
registers. The setting of clearing of certain bits during the initialization
process indicates whether the board has been configured correctly.
The utility also performs a write/read back/compare operation to selected
registers to verify each register’s accessibility.

.SH Flash memory test
In this test the user diagnostic utility reads the contents of the Flash
memory, calculates the checksum, and compares the calculated checksum
to the one stored in memory.

.SH Interrupt test
In this test the user diagnostic utility communicates with the driver to
force the hardware to generated selected interrupts, then reads the interrupt
status register to verify that the interrupt was generated and processed.

.SH Internal loop-back test
In this test the user diagnostic utility sets the Ethernet core (MAC) to
perform a loopback operation. The utility sends packets to itself, then
compares the contents of the packets to verify that the sent and received
values are the same. No external hardware is required for the internal
loopback test.

.SH External full duplex loop-back test
For CX4 applications, an external module is required to connect the four
transmit lanes to the four corresponding receive lanes. This module must
contain all of the associated handshake signals required to redirect the
four transmit lanes to the four receive lanes. In this test the utility
sends packets to itself through the optical transmit lane, reads the contents
on the receive lane, then compares the contents of the packets to verify that
the sent and received values are the same.For XFP applications, an 850 nm
multimode cable with LC connectors is required to externally connect the
transmit lane to the receive lane.

.SH Link Test
This test reports whether the link is up or down and also checked the carrier
detect on the PHY.

.SH LED Test
This is an interactive test. The software/driver has no auto-detect mechanism
for checking the LEDs.
It is assumed the operator will have access to visually inspect the LEDs on the
NIC.When the test is run, the LEDs will blink for several seconds. If no LEDs
blink, the test has failed.

.SH Hardware Test
This tests various hardware blocks of NetXen's board including SRE, EPG, DMA engines, etc. 

.SH All tests
This option runs all of the above tests using a single command.

.SH Board Info
When no argument is passed to the utility it displays the board info.Board info
includes information of the NetXen interface,with serial number,Chip Revision,
Firmware version,Board Type,Clock info,DDR and QDR size,I-Cache and D-Cache info
,mac address and Card Temperature.

.br
The \fBpre-requisites\fP for running this tool are:
.br
The NetXen Ethernet Card, revision C1, or later.

Make sure that latest version of NetXen's NIC driver is installed on system.
.br

.SH OPTIONS

.B To run all tests:
.br
		nxudiag -i ethX -a
.br
	or	nxudiag -i ethX --all

.B To get board information:
.br
		nxudiag -i ethX

.B To run default tests:
.br
		nxudiag -i ethX -D
.br
	or	nxudiag -i ethX --default

.B To get help:
.br
		nxudiag -i ethX -h
.br
	or	nxudiag -i ethX --help


.SH SUPPORT
For additional information about NetXen NIC and its driver, firmware,
documentation and related material see 
.br
.LP
.RS
.I http://www.netxen.com
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
nx_nic(4), nxlic(4), nx_lsa(4), nxflash(4)
